en: add doc about volume snapshot backup/restore across multiple kubernetes (#2406)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/backup-by-ebs-snapshot-across-multiple-kubernetes.md

---

> title: Back Up a TiDB Cluster across multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Back Up a TiDB Cluster across Multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots
```

summary: Learn how to back up TiDB cluster data across multiple Kubernetes to S3 based on EBS volume snapshots using BR Federation Manager.

> aliases: ['/docs/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/backup-by-ebs-snapshot-across-multiple-kubernetes/']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
aliases are for redirects. No need for this doc.

---

> # Back Up a TiDB Cluster across multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Back Up a TiDB Cluster across Multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots
```

> This document describes how to back up the data of a TiDB cluster across multiple AWS Kubernetes to AWS storage based on EBS volume snapshots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to back up the data of a TiDB cluster deployed across multiple AWS Kubernetes to AWS storage based on EBS volume snapshots.
```

> The backup method described in this document is implemented based on CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) in BR Federation Manager and TiDB Operator. For the underlying implementation, [BR](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-overview) is used to get the backup data of the TiDB cluster, and then send the data to the AWS storage. BR stands for Backup & Restore, which is a command-line tool for distributed backup and recovery of the TiDB cluster data.

Reviewer: What is BR Federation Manager? Can you explain it or link to somewhere that explains it?

Author: BR Federation Manager is an operator in control plane, like tidb operator, but it can access multiple Kubernetes and only uses for backup and restore. It orchestrate `Backup` and `Restore` CR across multiple Kubernetes to complete the backup and restore. I will add a doc about its architecture and link to it later.

### Step 1. Set up the environment for EBS volume snapshot backup in every data plane

**You must execute the steps below in every data plane**.

1. Download the file [backup-rbac.yaml](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/blob/master/manifests/backup/backup-rbac.yaml) to the backup server.

2. Supposed that you deploy the TiDB cluster in `${namespace}`, create the RBAC-related resources required for the backup in this namespace by running the following command.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f backup-rbac.yaml -n ${namespace}
    ```

3. Grant permissions to access remote storage.

   To back up cluster data and save snapshot metadata to Amazon S3, you need to grant permissions to remote storage. Three ways are available. See [AWS account authorization](grant-permissions-to-remote-storage.md#aws-account-permissions).

### Step 2. Back up data to S3 storage

**You must execute the steps below in the control plane**. Based on the authorization method you selected in the previous step to grant remote storage access, you can back up data to S3 storage using any of the following methods accordingly:

> + Method 1: If you grant permissions by accessKey and secretKey, you can create the `VolumeBackup` CR as follows:

Reviewer: 这里的多个 method 可以写成 simpleTab 的形式，对用户更友好，显示效果是这样的：

<img width="642" alt="image" src="https://github.com/pingcap/docs-tidb-operator/assets/59654584/64276143-595c-4a78-9f10-034ecebeae81">

具体语法是：

```
<SimpleTab>
<div label="tab 1">
...
</div>
<div label="tab 2">
...
</div>
</SimpleTab>
```

### Step 3. View the backup status

After creating the `VolumeBackup` CR, the BR Federation Manager automatically starts the backup process in each data plane.

To check the volume backup status, use the following command:

```shell
kubectl get vbk -n ${namespace} -o wide
```

Once the volume backup is complete, you can get the information of all the data planes in the `status.backups` field. This information can be used for volume restore.

To obtain the information, use the following command:

```shell
kubectl get vbk ${backup-name} -n ${namespace} -o yaml
```

The information is as follows:

```yaml
status:
  backups:
  - backupName: fed-{backup-name}-{k8s-name1}
    backupPath: s3://{bucket-name}/{backup-path}-{k8s-name1}
    commitTs: "ts1"
    k8sClusterName: {k8s-name1}
    tcName: {tc-name1}
    tcNamespace: {tc-namespace1}
  - backupName: fed-{backup-name}-{k8s-name2}
    backupPath: s3://{bucket-name}/{backup-path}-{k8s-name2}
    commitTs: "ts2"
    k8sClusterName: {k8s-name2}
    tcName: {tc-name2}
    tcNamespace: {tc-namespace2}
  - ... # other backups
```

### Delete the `VolumeBackup` CR

> You can delete the `VolumeBackup` CR by running the following commands:
> 
> ```shell
> kubectl delete backup ${backup-name} -n ${namespace}
> ```
> 
> If you set `spec.template.cleanPolicy` to `Delete`, when you delete the CR, the BR Federation Manager will clean up the backup file and the volume snapshots on AWS.

Reviewer: 交换了两段话的顺序，因为用户需要先设置 cleanPolicy 再执行 delete CR。

````suggestion
If you set `spec.template.cleanPolicy` to `Delete`, when you delete the `VolumeBackup` CR, the BR Federation Manager will clean up the backup file and the volume snapshots on AWS.

To delete the `VolumeBackup` CR, run the following commands:

```shell
kubectl delete backup ${backup-name} -n ${namespace}
```
````

---
title: Back Up a TiDB Cluster across Multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots
summary: Learn how to back up TiDB cluster data across multiple Kubernetes to S3 based on EBS volume snapshots using BR Federation.
---

# Back Up a TiDB Cluster across Multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots

This document describes how to back up the data of a TiDB cluster deployed across multiple AWS Kubernetes to AWS storage using EBS volume snapshots.

> The backup method described in this document is implemented based on CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) in [BR Federation](volume-snapshot-backup-restore-across-multiple-kubernetes.md#architecture-of-br-federation) and TiDB Operator. For the underlying implementation, [BR](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-overview) is used to get the backup data of the TiDB cluster, and then send the data to the AWS storage. BR stands for Backup & Restore, which is a command-line tool for distributed backup and recovery of the TiDB cluster data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The backup method described in this document is implemented based on CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) in [BR Federation](volume-snapshot-backup-restore-across-multiple-kubernetes.md#architecture-of-br-federation) and TiDB Operator. [BR](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-overview) (Backup & Restore) is a command-line tool for distributed backup and recovery of the TiDB cluster data. For the underlying implementation, BR gets the backup data of the TiDB cluster, and then sends the data to the AWS storage.
```

## Usage scenarios

If you have the following requirements when backing up TiDB cluster data, you can use TiDB Operator to back up the data using volume snapshots and metadata to Amazon S3:

- Minimize the impact of backup, such as keeping the impact on QPS and transaction latency less than 5%, and not utilizing cluster CPU and memory.
- Back up and restore data in a short period of time. For example, completing a backup within 1 hour and restore it within 2 hours.

If you have any other requirements, refer to [Backup and Restore Overview](backup-restore-overview.md) and select an appropriate backup method.

## Limitations

> - Snapshot backup is applicable to TiDB Operator v1.5.0 or later versions and TiDB v6.5.3 or later versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Snapshot backup is applicable to TiDB Operator v1.5.0 or later versions, and TiDB v6.5.3 or later versions.
```

### Step 2. Back up data to S3 storage

**You must execute the following steps in the control plane**.

Depending on the authorization method you choose in the previous step for granting remote storage access, you can back up data by EBS snapshots using any of the following methods accordingly:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="AK/SK">

If you grant permissions by accessKey and secretKey, you can create the `VolumeBackup` CR as follows:

```shell
kubectl apply -f backup-fed.yaml
```

The `backup-fed.yaml` file has the following content:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: federation.pingcap.com/v1alpha1
kind: VolumeBackup
metadata:
  name: ${backup-name}
spec:
  clusters:
  - k8sClusterName: ${k8s-name1}
    tcName: ${tc-name1}
    tcNamespace: ${tc-namespace1}
  - k8sClusterName: ${k8s-name2}
    tcName: ${tc-name2}
    tcNamespace: ${tc-namespace2}
  - ... # other clusters
  template:
    br:
      sendCredToTikv: true
    s3:
      provider: aws
      secretName: s3-secret
      region: ${region-name}
      bucket: ${bucket-name}
      prefix: ${backup-path}
    toolImage: ${br-image}

>     cleanPolicy: Delete

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    cleanPolicy: Delete
    calcSizeLevel: {snapshot-size-calculation-level}
```

---
title: Back Up a TiDB Cluster across Multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots
summary: Learn how to back up TiDB cluster data across multiple Kubernetes to S3 based on EBS volume snapshots using BR Federation.
---

# Back Up a TiDB Cluster across Multiple Kubernetes Using EBS Volume Snapshots

This document describes how to back up the data of a TiDB cluster deployed across multiple AWS Kubernetes clusters to AWS storage using EBS volume snapshots.

The backup method described in this document is implemented based on CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) in [BR Federation](br-federation-architecture.md#br-federation-architecture-and-processes) and TiDB Operator. [BR](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-overview) (Backup & Restore) is a command-line tool for distributed backup and recovery of the TiDB cluster data. For the underlying implementation, BR gets the backup data of the TiDB cluster, and then sends the data to the AWS storage.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note**
>
> Before you back up data, make sure that you have [deployed BR Federation](deploy-br-federation.md).

```

## Usage scenarios

If you have the following requirements when backing up TiDB cluster data, you can use TiDB Operator to back up the data using volume snapshots and metadata to Amazon S3:

- Minimize the impact of backup, such as keeping the impact on QPS and transaction latency less than 5%, and not utilizing cluster CPU and memory.
- Back up and restore data in a short period of time. For example, completing a backup within 1 hour and restore it within 2 hours.

If you have any other requirements, refer to [Backup and Restore Overview](backup-restore-overview.md) and select an appropriate backup method.

## Prerequisites

> > storage blocks on volumes that were created from snapshots must be initialized (pulled down from Amazon S3 and written to the volume) before you can access the block. This preliminary action takes time and can cause a significant increase in the latency of an I/O operation the first time each block is accessed. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks have been downloaded and written to the volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The storage blocks on volumes that are created from snapshots must be initialized (pulled down from Amazon S3 and written to the volume) before you can access the block. This initialization process takes time and might cause significantly increased latency for I/O operations when accessing each block for the first time. It is only after all blocks have been downloaded and written to the volume that optimal volume performance is achieved.
```

Author: this is referenced from AWS documentation, we shouldn't change it.

Reviewer 3: Better to make it as an quote

> > storage blocks on volumes that were created from snapshots must be initialized (pulled down from Amazon S3 and written to the volume) before you can access the block. This preliminary action takes time and can cause a significant increase in the latency of an I/O operation the first time each block is accessed. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks have been downloaded and written to the volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Storage blocks on volumes that were created from snapshots must be initialized (pulled down from Amazon S3 and written to the volume) before you can access the block. This preliminary action takes time and can cause a significant increase in the latency of an I/O operation the first time each block is accessed. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks have been downloaded and written to the volume.
```

> From AWS documentation, the EBS volume restored from snapshot may have high latency before it's initialized, which can result in big performance hit of restored TiDB cluster. See details in [ebs create volume from snapshot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-creating-volume.html#ebs-create-volume-from-snapshot).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to AWS documentation, the EBS volume restored from snapshots might have high latency before it is initialized. This can impact the performance of a restored TiDB cluster. See details in [Create a volume from a snapshot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-creating-volume.html#ebs-create-volume-from-snapshot).
```

> To initialize the restored volume more efficiently, you should **separate WAL and raft log to a dedicated small volume from TiKV data**. So that we can improve write performance of restored TiDB cluster by full initializing the volume of WAL and raft log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initialize the restored volume more efficiently, it is recommended to **separate WAL and raft log into a dedicated small volume apart from TiKV data**. By fully initializing the volume of WAL and raft log separately, we can enhance write performance for a restored TiDB cluster.
```

> **Note:**
> 
> > storage blocks on volumes that were created from snapshots must be initialized (pulled down from Amazon S3 and written to the volume) before you can access the block. This preliminary action takes time and can cause a significant increase in the latency of an I/O operation the first time each block is accessed. Volume performance is achieved after all blocks have been downloaded and written to the volume.
>
> From AWS documentation, the EBS volume restored from snapshot may have high latency before it's initialized, which can result in big performance hit of restored TiDB cluster. See details in [ebs create volume from snapshot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-creating-volume.html#ebs-create-volume-from-snapshot).
> 

> > To initialize the restored volume more efficiently, you should **separate WAL and raft log to a dedicated small volume from TiKV data**. So that we can improve write performance of restored TiDB cluster by full initializing the volume of WAL and raft log.

Reviewer: 这里放到具体步骤里更恰当？比如 prerequisites 或者第一步前

Author: done
